.TH LOGDISSECT 3
.SH NAME
The logdissect module contains utilities for parsing, merging, filtering, and exporting syslog data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
    \fBimport logdissect
    myparser = logdissect.parsers.syslogbsd.ParseModule()
    attribute_dict = myparser.parse_line(\fI<RAW_LINE>\fB)
    logdataobject = myparser.parse_log(\fI<LOG_FILE_PATH>\fB)
    logentryobject = logdissect.data.LogEntry()

.SH DESCRIPTION
The logdissect module comes with the logdissect log analysis program. It contains objects which can be used to parse log lines and files, merge and filter logs, and output to a few formats.

.SH PARSER MODULES
\fBmyparser = logdissect.parsers.<parser>.ParseModule()\fR
.br
Replace <parser> with one of the available parsers:
    \fBciscoios\fR - Cisco IOS logs
    \fBsyslog\fR - standard syslog
    \fBsyslogiso\fR - syslog with ISO 8601 datestamp
    \fBsyslognohost\fR - syslog with no host attribute
    \fBtcpdump\fR - tcpdump terminal output
    \fBsojson\fR - logdissect single-object JSON output
    \fBlinejson\fR - logdissect object-per-line JSON output
    \fBwebaccess\fR - web access logs
    \fBwindowsrsyslog\fR - Windows rsyslog agent forwarded logs
    
Parsers have two methods (except the sojson parser, which has no parse_line() method):

\fBfile_dict = myparser.parse_file(\fI<file>\fB)\fR
.br
Accepts a filename as input, and returns a dictionary with some metadata, and a list of entry dictionaries (`entries`).

Parsers have a \fBtzone\fR attribute that uses standard ISO 8601 offset to UTC (e.g. \fB+0500\fR, \fB-0200\fR); if not set, logdissect will attempt to get current time zone data from the local system (unless a time zone is already present, such as in the syslogiso parser, or the sojson parser).

\fBentry_dict = myparser.parse_line(\fI<line>\fB)\fR
.br
Accepts a log line as input, and returns a dictionary of strings. There are two built-in keys, \fBraw_text\fR and \fBparser\fR, and parsers can add their own keys.

Parsers have a \fBdatestamp_type\fR attribute that defines how timestamps will be converted. The options are as follows:

    \fBstandard\fR - standard syslog date stamps
    \fBnodate\fR - time stamps with no date (i.e. tcpdump)
    \fBiso\fR - ISO8601 timestamps
    \fBwebaccess\fR - web access log date stamps
    \fBunix\fR - Unix timestamps
    \fBnow\fR - always set date stamp to time parsed
    \fBNone\fR - skip conversion

Conversion happens with any parser that has a \fBdate_stamp\fR field in \fBfields\fR (the \fBnow\fR datestamp type doesn't require a \fBdate_stamp\fR field), and adds the following attributes to the entry dictionary:

    \fByear\fR - a 4-digit string (or None)
    \fBmonth\fR - a 2-digit string
    \fBday\fR - a 2-digit string
    \fBtstamp\fR - a 6-digit string with optional decimal and extra places
    \fBtzone\fR - \fB+\fR or \fB-\fR followed by a 4-digit offset to utc (HHMM)
    \fBnumeric_date_stamp\fR - a datestamp in the form of YYYYmmddHHMMSS[.ffffff]
    \fBdate_stamp\fR - a standard date stamp (added for `now` datestamp type only)

The sojson parser has no parse_line() method.

.SH FILTER MODULES
\fBmyfilter = logdissect.filters.<filter>.FilterModule()\fR
Replace <filter> with one of the available filters:

    \fBsource\fR - match a log source
    \fBrsource\fR - filter out a log source
    \fBrange\fR - match a time range
    \fBlast\fR - match a preceeding time range
    \fBgrep\fR - match entries containing a regular expression
    \fBrgrep\fR - filter out entries containing a regular expression
    \fBshost` - match a source host
    \fBrshost` - filter out a source host
    \fBdhost` - match a destination host
    \fBrdhost` - filter out a destination host
    \fBprocess` - match a source process
    \fBrprocess` - filter out a source process
    \fBprotocol` - match a protocol
    \fBrprotocol` - filter out a protocol

Filters have one method, \fBfilter_values\fR. Usage for all filters except \fBlast\fR and \fBrange\fR:

\fBnew_data = myfilter.filter_data(\fIdata\fR, \fIvalues=['VALUE1', 'VALUE2']\fB)\fR
.br
\fBdata\fR should be a log dictionary, with an \fBentries\fR value that contains a list of event dictionaries. \fBvalues\fR is a list containing strings to match or filter out.
.br
Syntax for the \fBlast\fR and \fBrange\fR filters differs slighty. Instead of \fBvalues\fR, they are passed \fBvalue\fR, which is a single string. The format of \fBvalue\fR:

    \fBrange\fR filter - YYYYmmddHHMMSS-YYYYmmddHHMMSS (time values can be shortened; filter will fill in \fB0\fRs)
    \fBlast\fR filter - a number, followed by either \fBm\fR for minutes, \fBh\fR for hours, or \fBd\fR for days (e.g. \fB20m\fR)

Time-based filters filter on the \fBnumeric_date_stamp\fR value. The \fBrange\fR filter also has a \fButc\fR keyword argument that defaults to false. If set to \fBTrue\fR, it will filter based on \fBnumeric_date_stamp_utc\fR.

.SH OUTPUT MODULES
\fBmyoutput = logdissect.output.<output>.OutputModule()\fR
Replace <output> with one of the available filters:

    \fBlog\fR - outputs to standard log file format
    \fBsojson\fR - outputs entry list to a single json object
    \fBlinejson\fR - outputs one json entry dictionary object per line

Output modules have one method, \fBwrite_output\fR. Usage:

\fBmyoutput.write_output(\fIdata\fR, \fIfilename='FILENAME'\fB)\fR
.br
\fBdata\fR should be a log dictionary, with an \fBentries\fR value that contains a list of event dictionaries.

The \fBlog\fR output module also has a \fBlabel\fR keyword argument with a few possible settings. If set to \fB'fname'\fR, it will add source file names to the output. If set to '\fBfpath'\fR, it will add full source file paths to the output.

The \fBsojson\fR output module has a \fBpretty\fR keyword argument. If set to true, the output will be formatted in a nice, human-readable style. The default is `False`.

.SH UTIL FUNCTIONS
.SH DATE STAMP CONVERSION

    import logdissect.util
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_standard_datestamp(entry)
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_nodate_datestamp(entry, datetimeobject)
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_iso_datestamp(entry)
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_webaccess_datestamp(entry)
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_unix_datestamp(entry)
    entry = logdissect.utils.convert_now_datestamp(entry)

Date stamp converters assign the following fields, based on an entry dictionary's \fBdate_stamp\fR value:

    \fByear\fR - a 4 digit string (set to \fBNone\fR for standard converter)
    \fBmonth\fR - a 2 digit string
    \fBday\fR - a 2 digit string
    \fBtstamp\fR - a 6 digit string, with optional decimal point and fractional seconds.
    \fBnumeric_date_stamp\fR a string with format \fBYYYYmmddHHMMSS[.ffffff]\fR (not set for standard converter)

\fBlogdissect.util\fR contains the following datestamp converters:

    \fBstandard\fR - standard syslog datestamps
    \fBnodate\fR - timestamps with no date
    \fBiso\fR - ISO 8601 timestamps
    \fBwebaccess\fR - web access log date stamps
    \fBunix\fR - Unix timestamps
    \fBnow\fR - use the current time

.SH TIME ZONE
\fBentry = logdissect.utils.get_utc_date(entry)\fR
.br
Sets the \fBnumeric_date_stamp_utc\fR value based on the \fBnumeric_date_stamp\fR value and the \fBtzone\fR value, and returns the entry.

\fBmytimezone = logdissect.utils.get_local_tzone()\fR
.br
Returns the local time zone.

.SH MERGING
\fBlog_dict = logdissect.utils.merge_logs(dataset)\fR
.br
Merges multiple log dictionaries together, and returns a single log dictionary. \fBdataset\fR is a dictionary with some metadata, and a \fBdata_set\fR value, which is a list of log dictionaries. Each log dictionary contains some metadata, and an \fBentries\fR value, which is a list of event dictionaries.

.SH SEE ALSO
    logdissect(1)

.SH FILES
    /usr/share/doc/logdissect/README.md
    /usr/share/doc/logdissect/README-API.md
    /usr/share/doc/logdissect/README-DEV.md
    /usr/share/doc/logdissect/CHANGELOG.md
    /usr/share/doc/logdissect/LICENSE

.SH AUTHOR
    Dan Persons (dpersonsdev@gmail.com)

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017 Dan Persons

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
